“Influence” by Robert Cialdini

[source: https://entrepreneurshandbook.co/two-books-that-turned-a-26-year-old-programmer-into-a-billionaire-8990e52065b1]

Many programmers choose their career path because they’re better off interacting with a logical computer, rather than an emotional human.

It’s not surprising that Influence by Robert Cialdini was one of Tobias’s cornerstone books as a budding entrepreneur. The book explains the science of persuasion as a combination of five elements:

Reciprocation refers to the human need to return the favor. For example, Hare Krishna members always give passers-by a flower before asking for donations — this makes them more likely to donate.

Consistency refers to the human need to “save face” in front of others. In human societies, we respect people who do not change their stance. So, for example, if you build personal rapport with a prospect by genuinely asking how they’re doing, they’re going to feel motivated to consider your offer later — simply because they’ve already been nice to you before.

Social proof is the bread and butter for entrepreneurs. All animal species have largely evolved via imitation — long before articulate human thoughts were born. That’s why TV shows use canned laughter, and why bartenders put a few dollars into the tip jar before the customers walk in.

Liking refers to an old truism that “we do business with people we like.” Here, the author refers to less-revolutionary truths that we often make business decisions based on someone’s looks and familiarity with us.

Lastly, the author reminds us that authority plays a major role in business. Highlighting things like titles and money may seem wrong and inaccurate to a logical person, but they do work on a subconscious level. For example, someone introduced as a professor seems taller than someone introduced as a graduate student. Also, car drivers wait longer before honking on a luxury car than an old car.

Influence may also be called Humans 101 for all the pearls you can find in it. It’s not surprising that Tobias remembers Influence as the most influential (pun intended) book he’d ever read.

Tobias spent his teenage years with “computers, not humans,” and his wife often calls him “an immigrant to the human condition.”
As he said himself, Influence was

“…just the most mind-bending book you can imagine. Because it essentially told you all the ways humans are flawed and easily influenced.”
